URL: https://www.aven.com/
Title: Aven | The Most Powerful Credit Card for Homeowners | Aven Card
==================================================

Credit card in the front.
Home equity in the back.
7.49 – 14.99% Var. APR1
2% Unlimited Cash Back1
Up To $250,000 Limit
Starting at $0 To Get A Card
As Fast As 15 Minutes
Mobile Number
Check your offer†
Have an invite code?
Checking your offer will NOT affect your credit score.
†By providing your number, you consent to automated or manual marketing messages & to Aven's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Msg freq may vary. Msg&data rates may apply. Reply HELP for help or STOP to opt-out. Consent to marketing messages is not required for any purchase.
Excellent
4.9 out of 5 based on 5,087 reviews
It's home equity...
It's a credit card...
It's Aven.
It works like a regular Visa® Credit Card, but taps into your home equity to get you really, really low rates.
2% Cash Back Visa® Credit Card
Get a credit card that earns you unlimited 2% cash back on every single purchase. Use what you want, when you want.1
Cash Out To Your Bank
Directly deposit cash from your Aven card to your bank account at the same low rate. No gotchas. Just a 2.5% transfer fee.1
Balance Transfer Other Debt
Transfer your other high-interest credit card or personal loan debt and start saving thousands in unnecessary interest payments. No gimmicks. Pay the same low rate. Just a 2.5% transfer fee.1
Flexible Repayment Options
Only pay for what you use. You can make payments like a regular credit card – a minimum of 1% of the statement balance plus interest. Or for Cash Outs and Balance Transfers, you also have the option for fixed monthly payments (Aven Simple Loan).4
No annual fee.1
Starting at $0 to get.
Typical home equity products can cost thousands of dollars to originate on top of the weeks-long process. Starting at $0 to get a card and as fast as 15 minutes.
Origination Fee
$0
Annual Fee
$0
Appraisal Fee
$0
Notary Fee
$0
Prepayment Penalty
$0
As fast as 15 minutes from start to finish
1.
Check Offer
Answer a few simple questions to quickly confirm your identity and home. Checking your offer does not affect your credit score.
2.
Confirm Income
A flexible yet simple process to instantly verify your bank account or pay stubs. You pick which works for you. For some this step is automatically calculated.
3.
Schedule Digital Signing
We seamlessly connect you with our notary to sign your documents entirely digitally. Credit approval required.
Save up to 50% interest.
Every month.2
Stop paying thousands a year in interest from your high interest debt, like a credit card or personal loan. See the savings on a $10,000 balance if paying off over 3 years.
Aven
Capital One Platinum
Chase Freedom
BofA Cash Rewards
Midpoint APR
11.24%
30.49%
24.62%
22.99%
Monthly Payment
$328.52
$427.20
$395.59
$387.05
Total
$11,826.90
$15,379.35
$14,241.28
$13,933.62
Unnecessary Interest Paid
$0
$3,552.45
$2,414.38
$2,106.72
The Unnecessary Interest Paid is the interest we will save you over those banks. Estimate assumes no additional transactions are made and the suggested “monthly” payment is paid every month for 3 years. Paying only the minimum payment of 1% principal & interest increases the “Total” amount paid and will not pay off the balance in 3 years. See Minimum Payment Example for repayment using minimum payment.
The application process was super simple – unlike any other real estate line of credit I have ever applied for.”
Edward Tamayo
Set Dresser
Got approved instantly... And we signed everything electronically with [the notary] on the phone. And I think we’re done in about 15, 20 minutes”.
Al & Jessica
Mortgage Brokers
AS FEATURED ON
Honestly, if you own a home and have equity or you think you may have it. Its a no brainer. The simplest Home Equity Line you will ever find. From app to finishing took less than 30 mins. I still cant believe it was so easy.
Jacob G
Aven is the bomb!!!
As a senior sometimes completing information online can be tedious for us. This is one of the most simplest & fastest application process ever. They provided you with all you need to complete application on line which by the way only took minutes to complete...
Patricia
I am extremely satisfied with the way that my dispute was handled! I was sort of expecting the process to be long and drawn out like it is with other companies. That was not the case at all! My dispute was handled promptly, with feedback and follow through! It didn’t even take 24 hours for a resolution to be reached and in my favor!!! I am very proud to be an Aven customer!
Neil
Get peace of mind
We want to give you the lowest rate, not the fear of using home equity. So we have built-in safeguards to help remove that fear, especially during inevitable life surprises.
Backed By FDIC Insured Bank
We are partnered with Coastal Community Bank, Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Visa USA Inc. You benefit from our innovation, great pricing, and simple convenience with the trust of a traditional FDIC-insured bank.
Built In Safeguards
Tools to keep control over your spend and debt. Every time you purchase, you get an alert on your app. Every time your card is used for a large purchase, your app will get alerts to approve those big purchases.
The card for everything
Broken pipe? Bathroom upgrade? Too much credit card interest? Use what you need, when you need.
P.S. Did you know home improvement projects may be considered tax deductible! Consult a tax advisor regarding the deductibility of interest and charges.
Questions?
What is the Aven Home Card?
Aven is a credit card that lets you use your home equity to get really low rates.
How does it work?
Aven combines the convenience of a credit card with the savings of a home equity line of credit (HELOC). It works like any other credit card where you can make everyday purchases and earn unlimited 2% cash back.1
Do you offer a fixed rate?
For Cash Outs and Balance Transfers, you have the option of fixed monthly payments (Aven Simple Loan). Lock in your payments for 5 or 10 years. 2.5% fee per cash out applies. Available right in the app.4
What is my monthly payment?
Monthly payments work like a standard credit card. It is calculated as 1% of the principal balance, plus monthly interest, plus any fees. See Payment Calculator.
Can I get cash too?
Yes! You can directly deposit cash from your Aven card to your bank account at the same low rate. A 2.5% transfer fee applies.1
Does this affect my credit score?
Checking your offer does not affect your credit score. Only once you schedule with our notary to finalize will we do a hard credit check.
Are there any fees?
We try to reduce as many of the fees as possible. No annual, sign-up, or pre-payment fees. There is a 2.5% fee on Cash Outs and Balance Transfers and a $29 late fee if you don’t make the minimum payment.1
Why is the rate variable?
Similar to other credit cards, the rate is variable. It will vary based on the FFTR-UL as published in the Wall Street Journal, outside Aven's control. As the FFTR-UL shifts up or down, so will the APR on the Aven Card and any other variable-rate credit cards, lines, loans. The FFTR-UL may change several times a year.1 For Cash Outs and Balance Transfers we offer fixed monthly payments (Aven Simple Loan). Lock in your monthly payment for 5 or 10 years.4
Why not get a traditional home equity line of credit instead?
Home equity lines of credit often come with high fees (usually over $1000), minimum advances, minimum credit limits (often at least $50,000), and take 4-6 weeks to close.3 With Aven, you can get your card in just a few days in the mail, you can use it any number of times for any amount under your limit, with no origination or annual fees. Best of all, you get cash back on your purchases.1
What are the criteria to qualify for this credit card?
1) Own and have equity in your home. 2) Have an income that can support your monthly bill – we don’t want you to get into debt that you can’t afford. 3) Meet certain credit criteria, including credit score, income, and property value requirements.
Credit card in the front. HELOC in the back.
Starting at $0 to get. Checking your offer will NOT affect your credit score.
Mobile Number
Check your offer†
Have an invite code?
†By providing your number, you consent to automated or manual marketing messages & to Aven's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Msg freq may vary. Msg&data rates may apply. Reply HELP for help or STOP to opt-out. Consent to marketing messages is not required for any purchase.
Reach out with any questions
The easiest way to get in touch with us is to send us an email.
Send Us a Message
AVEN
Card
How It Works
Testimonials
App
About Us
Careers
RESOURCES
Press
Privacy
Terms of Service
Pay It Forward
Licenses
Disclosures
© 2025 Aven
The annual percentage rate (“APR”) is the cost of credit as a yearly rate and does not include costs other than interest. The APR is a variable rate based on the Wall Street Journal prime rate (“Index”) published by the Wall Street Journal in its Money Rates section. The WSJ Prime Rate as of Jan 10th, 2025 EST is 7.50%. Your initial APR is based on a margin, determined by your creditworthiness when you open your account, plus the Index at the time of application. Your APR is subject to change as allowed by applicable law. Best rates available only to the highest-qualified borrowers. The maximum APR will not exceed 18% during the life of your account. Cash Out (draw to bank account) fee and Balance Transfer fee is 2.5% of amount transferred. This fee is subject to change. The county where your property is located may charge recording fees. If your line is greater than $25,000, you are responsible for paying these costs. These costs will be placed in a 12-month interest free, fixed term loan and be part of your Minimum Payment Due.
You are not required to sign up for AutoPay. To receive a 0.25 percentage point discount to your APR, you must enroll in AutoPay by the end of your first billing cycle and maintain AutoPay. This discount is available to new cardholders only. If you fail to enroll, or if you discontinue AutoPay, your APR will increase by 0.25 percentage points. We reserve the right to terminate or modify the AutoPay discount program at any time without notice. See AutoPay Terms & Conditions for details.
Cash back available for those who sign up for AutoPay. See Cash Back Terms & Conditions for details. Some restrictions apply.
For the initial cash out draw, you are charged a fee of 0% of the amount drawn. This fee is subject to change. There are no fees for subsequent cash outs or balance transfers. The APR for an Aven Simple Loan (the “ASL APR”) is based on your variable APR and other factors at the time you agree to the plan. The ASL APR is fixed and will not change during the term of this plan and is subject to the applicable draw supplement.
If you have an active HELOC agreement or offer within the last 30 days that demonstrates a lower cost than ours, we’ll beat the offer or send you $250. Introductory, temporary, and promotional offers do not apply toward our guarantee. Only valid for new customers who received this specific offer. We reserve the right to change the terms of the guarantee at any time. Guarantee Terms and Conditions.
If you have an existing second lien (“Second Lien”) on your subject property, you acknowledge and agree that we may transfer your application to our refinance product (subject in all cases to credit approval). The refinance product may have different terms and conditions than the initial product you applied for. Please review the Early HELOC Disclosure for more information.
Our APR is 7.49-14.99% for primary residences. The average for other cards in the US for people with good credit is over 23% APR. Source: "Average Credit Card Interest Rates" wallethub.com on Jul 14, 2025 showing the average rate for credit cards in the US for people with good credit is 23.90% APR.
These comparison charts use the midpoint of each card's APR range. Aven’s midpoint as of Jul 23, 2025 is 11.24%. Sources: Capital One Platinum, Chase Freedom, Bank of America Cash Rewards Card.
Source: "Home Equity Loan Rates". Source: "How Long Do I Need to Wait for a Home Equity Line?". Source: "Average Credit Card Limit". Source: "What’s a Good Personal Loan Interest Rate?". Source: "Personal Loan Statistics". Source: "Credit Card Fee Study: What's Normal and What's Not?". Source: "What to know about personal loan origination fees".
Our fixed monthly payment option (Aven Simple Loan) is available based on your Var APR plus fees not exceeding the High Cost Mortgage threshold set by law. Your rate will not increase while the Aven Simple Loan plan is open.
Amount of 'Interest Saved' is calculated as follows:
For revolving plans – (1) for each month, we determine interest savings by multiplying (a) our current revolving balances by (b) our balance-weighted average APR minus the average interest rate on credit card plans and (c) then dividing by 12; (2) we then sum up the interest savings over all months since the company’s launch. The source of the average interest rate on credit card plans comes from FRED.
For fixed rate plans – (1) for each month, we determine the interest savings by multiplying (a) our current fixed rate balances by (b) our balance-weighted average APR minus the average interest rate for 5 year fixed personal loans and (c) then dividing by 12; (2) we then sum up the interest savings over all months since the company’s launch. The source of the average interest rate on personal loans comes from Credible
We then sum up the cumulative savings for both revolving and fixed rate plans.
Subject to Credit Approval, including use of data reports from Experian, Equifax and Transunion. Limit of one Account per property. Certain terms and conditions may apply. Terms may vary by applicant and are subject to change. Availability limited to certain states. See aven.com/licenses for more details. Not available for multi-unit homes. Requires a lien on your property. Flood insurance may be required if your property is located in a flood zone. Not available for home purchase. If you have an existing second lien (“Second Lien”) on your subject property, you acknowledge and agree that we may transfer your application to our refinance product (subject in all cases to credit approval). The refinance product may have different terms and conditions than the initial product you applied for. Please review the Early HELOC Disclosure for more information.
Note for customers in AK, ID, LA, NM, OK, SD, WY: We currently only offer lines up to $100,000. Check back soon for higher line sizes.
Notice to Consumers about all Languages. Para Español, consulte este documento.
Aven cards are arranged by Aven Financial, Inc., dba "Aven" or "AvenCard" (in AR, ID, and PA). NMLS #2042345. See aven.com/licenses for state specific details. Aven reserves the right to modify or discontinue its products or offerings at any time without notice.
Aven Visa Credit Cards are issued by Coastal Community Bank, pursuant to a license from Visa U.S.A., Inc. Aven accounts are made by Coastal Community Bank, Member FDIC. Equal Housing Lender. NMLS #462289 (NMLS Consumer Access Page). For additional information or complaints to Coastal Community Bank, visit www.federalreserveconsumerhelp.gov. For more information, you can also visit Coastal Community Bank’s privacy policy.
For licensing information, go to www.nmlsconsumeraccess.org
Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google Inc.
Aven
548 Market St #99555
San Francisco, California 94104-5401
USA
support@aven.com