URL: https://www.aven.com/education
Title: Education | Aven Card
==================================================

How It Works
It works like a regular Visa® Credit Card, but taps into your home equity to get you really, really low rates.
What is the Aven Home Card?
Aven is a credit card that lets you use your home equity to get really low rates.
How does it work?
Aven combines the convenience of a credit card with the savings of a home equity line of credit (HELOC). It works like any other credit card where you can make everyday purchases and earn unlimited 2% cash back.1
Do you offer a fixed rate?
For Cash Outs and Balance Transfers, you have the option of fixed monthly payments (Aven Simple Loan). Lock in your payments for 5 or 10 years. 2.5% fee per cash out applies. Available right in the app.4
What is my monthly payment?
Monthly payments work like a standard credit card. It is calculated as 1% of the principal balance, plus monthly interest, plus any fees. See Payment Calculator.
Can I get cash too?
Yes! You can directly deposit cash from your Aven card to your bank account at the same low rate. A 2.5% transfer fee applies.1
Does this affect my credit score?
Checking your offer does not affect your credit score. Only once you schedule with our notary to finalize will we do a hard credit check.
Are there any fees?
We try to reduce as many of the fees as possible. No annual, sign-up, or pre-payment fees. There is a 2.5% fee on Cash Outs and Balance Transfers and a $29 late fee if you don’t make the minimum payment.1
More Questions...
Search
Become an Expert
Grow your knowledge with our educational articles written by our team of experts.
Can you get cash from Aven card?
Yes! See the various options to get cash from Aven card
What credit score is needed for the Aven card?
The Aven card is for responsible homeowners
What is an Aven Card?
The best credit card for homeowners
Home Depot Credit Card vs Aven Home Equity Credit Card
Which card is best for you?
Mobile Banking Security Tips
Security tips and tools to help keep you...
Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) Card: What is it?
Now that you understand what a HELOC Card is, let’s dive into how it works. This article also...
Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) Card: How it Works
Are you looking to free up some cash? If so, you have probably thought about getting a second...
Home Equity Credit Card: How to Get One
If you have a mortgage and want to free up cash to pay for home improvements, remodeling or other...
The Fastest Way to get a HELOC
A Home Equity Line of Credit can be a great way to obtain extra cash when you want to invest in...
When are HELOCs (Home Equity Lines of Credit) a Good Idea?
If you’re looking for a way to consolidate personal loan debt or want to free up some cash for a...
What is a Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC)? A Beginner’s Guide
There are many options to consider when you need to free up cash for a project or purchase, such...
Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs) vs. Mortgages: Similarities & Differences
Mortgages and HELOCs (Home Equity Lines of Credit) are two types of loans that are both backed by...
How are HELOC rates determined?
Have you decided a Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) is the best type of loan for you? If so,...
Refinancing a HELOC, how does it work?
When your HELOC draw period is coming to a close, and the repayment phase is upon you, you may...
How to get the lowest HELOC (Home Equity Line of Credit) rates?
Are you trying to determine whether or not a HELOC (Home Equity Line of Credit) is suitable for...
HELOC Rates: Are They Fixed or Variable?
A Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) is a great option to free up cash for home improvements or...
How to Get a HELOC on a Rental or Investment Property
Getting a home equity line of credit (HELOC) to help pay for renovations on your personal property...
AVEN
Card
How It Works
Testimonials
App
About Us
Careers
RESOURCES
Press
Privacy
Terms of Service
Pay It Forward
Licenses
Disclosures
© 2025 Aven
The annual percentage rate (“APR”) is the cost of credit as a yearly rate and does not include costs other than interest. The APR is a variable rate based on the Wall Street Journal prime rate (“Index”) published by the Wall Street Journal in its Money Rates section. The WSJ Prime Rate as of Jan 10th, 2025 EST is 7.50%. Your initial APR is based on a margin, determined by your creditworthiness when you open your account, plus the Index at the time of application. Your APR is subject to change as allowed by applicable law. Best rates available only to the highest-qualified borrowers. The maximum APR will not exceed 18% during the life of your account. Cash Out (draw to bank account) fee and Balance Transfer fee is 2.5% of amount transferred. This fee is subject to change. The county where your property is located may charge recording fees. If your line is greater than $25,000, you are responsible for paying these costs. These costs will be placed in a 12-month interest free, fixed term loan and be part of your Minimum Payment Due.
You are not required to sign up for AutoPay. To receive a 0.25 percentage point discount to your APR, you must enroll in AutoPay by the end of your first billing cycle and maintain AutoPay. This discount is available to new cardholders only. If you fail to enroll, or if you discontinue AutoPay, your APR will increase by 0.25 percentage points. We reserve the right to terminate or modify the AutoPay discount program at any time without notice. See AutoPay Terms & Conditions for details.
Cash back available for those who sign up for AutoPay. See Cash Back Terms & Conditions for details. Some restrictions apply.
For the initial cash out draw, you are charged a fee of 0% of the amount drawn. This fee is subject to change. There are no fees for subsequent cash outs or balance transfers. The APR for an Aven Simple Loan (the “ASL APR”) is based on your variable APR and other factors at the time you agree to the plan. The ASL APR is fixed and will not change during the term of this plan and is subject to the applicable draw supplement.
If you have an active HELOC agreement or offer within the last 30 days that demonstrates a lower cost than ours, we’ll beat the offer or send you $250. Introductory, temporary, and promotional offers do not apply toward our guarantee. Only valid for new customers who received this specific offer. We reserve the right to change the terms of the guarantee at any time. Guarantee Terms and Conditions.
If you have an existing second lien (“Second Lien”) on your subject property, you acknowledge and agree that we may transfer your application to our refinance product (subject in all cases to credit approval). The refinance product may have different terms and conditions than the initial product you applied for. Please review the Early HELOC Disclosure for more information.
Our APR is 7.49-14.99% for primary residences. The average for other cards in the US for people with good credit is over 23% APR. Source: "Average Credit Card Interest Rates" wallethub.com on Jul 14, 2025 showing the average rate for credit cards in the US for people with good credit is 23.90% APR.
These comparison charts use the midpoint of each card's APR range. Aven’s midpoint as of Jul 23, 2025 is 11.24%. Sources: Capital One Platinum, Chase Freedom, Bank of America Cash Rewards Card.
Source: "Home Equity Loan Rates". Source: "How Long Do I Need to Wait for a Home Equity Line?". Source: "Average Credit Card Limit". Source: "What’s a Good Personal Loan Interest Rate?". Source: "Personal Loan Statistics". Source: "Credit Card Fee Study: What's Normal and What's Not?". Source: "What to know about personal loan origination fees".
Our fixed monthly payment option (Aven Simple Loan) is available based on your Var APR plus fees not exceeding the High Cost Mortgage threshold set by law. Your rate will not increase while the Aven Simple Loan plan is open.
Amount of 'Interest Saved' is calculated as follows:
For revolving plans – (1) for each month, we determine interest savings by multiplying (a) our current revolving balances by (b) our balance-weighted average APR minus the average interest rate on credit card plans and (c) then dividing by 12; (2) we then sum up the interest savings over all months since the company’s launch. The source of the average interest rate on credit card plans comes from FRED.
For fixed rate plans – (1) for each month, we determine the interest savings by multiplying (a) our current fixed rate balances by (b) our balance-weighted average APR minus the average interest rate for 5 year fixed personal loans and (c) then dividing by 12; (2) we then sum up the interest savings over all months since the company’s launch. The source of the average interest rate on personal loans comes from Credible
We then sum up the cumulative savings for both revolving and fixed rate plans.
Subject to Credit Approval, including use of data reports from Experian, Equifax and Transunion. Limit of one Account per property. Certain terms and conditions may apply. Terms may vary by applicant and are subject to change. Availability limited to certain states. See aven.com/licenses for more details. Not available for multi-unit homes. Requires a lien on your property. Flood insurance may be required if your property is located in a flood zone. Not available for home purchase. If you have an existing second lien (“Second Lien”) on your subject property, you acknowledge and agree that we may transfer your application to our refinance product (subject in all cases to credit approval). The refinance product may have different terms and conditions than the initial product you applied for. Please review the Early HELOC Disclosure for more information.
Note for customers in AK, ID, LA, NM, OK, SD, WY: We currently only offer lines up to $100,000. Check back soon for higher line sizes.
Notice to Consumers about all Languages. Para Español, consulte este documento.
Aven cards are arranged by Aven Financial, Inc., dba "Aven" or "AvenCard" (in AR, ID, and PA). NMLS #2042345. See aven.com/licenses for state specific details. Aven reserves the right to modify or discontinue its products or offerings at any time without notice.
Aven Visa Credit Cards are issued by Coastal Community Bank, pursuant to a license from Visa U.S.A., Inc. Aven accounts are made by Coastal Community Bank, Member FDIC. Equal Housing Lender. NMLS #462289 (NMLS Consumer Access Page). For additional information or complaints to Coastal Community Bank, visit www.federalreserveconsumerhelp.gov. For more information, you can also visit Coastal Community Bank’s privacy policy.
For licensing information, go to www.nmlsconsumeraccess.org
Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google Inc.
Aven
548 Market St #99555
San Francisco, California 94104-5401
USA
support@aven.com