Source PDF: Aven-CFPBHELOCBooklet.pdf
==================================================

--- Page 1 ---
WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT
Home Equity
Lines of Credit (HELOC)
Borrowing from the
value of your home
Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau
An official publication of the U.S. government
--- Page 2 ---
How to use the booklet
When you and your lender discuss home equity
lines of credit, often referred to as HELOCs, you receive a copy of this booklet. It helps you explore and understand your options when borrowing against the equity in your home.
You can find more information from the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) about home loans at cfpb.gov/mortgages. You’ll also find other mortgage-related CFPB resources, facts, and tools to help you take control of your borrowing options.
About the CFPB
The CFPB is a 21st century agency that implements and enforces federal consumer financial law and ensures that markets for consumer financial products are fair, transparent, and competitive.
This pamphlet, titled What you should know about
home equity lines of credit, was created to comply with federal law pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1637a(e) and 12 CFR 1026.40(e). How can this booklet help you?
This booklet can help you decide whether
home equity line of credit is the right choice for you, and help you shop for the best available option.
A home equity line of credit (HELOC) is a loan that allows you to borrow, spend, and repay as you go, using your home as collateral.
Typically, you can borrow up to a
specified percentage of your equity. Equity is the value of your home minus the amount you owe on your mortgage.
Consider a HELOC if you are confident
you can keep up with the loan payments. If you fall behind or can’t repay the loan on schedule, you could lose your home.
After you finish this booklet:
• You’ll understand the effect of borrowing against your home
• You’ll think through your borrowing and financing options, besides a HELOC
• You’ll see how to shop for your best HELOC offer
• You’ll see what to do if the economy or your situation changes
--- Page 3 ---
TIP
Renting your home out to other people may be
prohibited under the terms of your line of credit. Compare a HELOC to other
money sources
Before you decide to take out a HELOC, it might
make sense to consider other options that might be available to you, like the ones below.
VARIABLE IS YOUR HOW MUCH CAN YOU TYPICAL TYPICAL MONEY SOURCE OR FIXED HOME AT BORROW ADVANTAGES DISADVANTAGES RATE RISK?
SECOND Generally a Fixed Yes Equal payments If you need more
percentage of the that pay off the money, you need to MORTGAGE OR
appraised value entire loan apply for a new loan;
of your home, repayment is often HOME EQUITY
LOAN minus the amount required when you You borrow against you owe on your sell your home the equity in your mortgage home
CASH-OUT Generally a Variable Yes Continue to make Closing costs are
REFINANCE percentage of the or fixed just one mortgage generally higher;
appraised value payment it may take longer You replace your
of your home; the to pay off your
amount of your mortgage; interest existing mortgage
with a bigger existing loan plus rate may be higher mortgage and take the amount you than your current the difference in cash want to cash out mortgage
PERSONAL LINE OF Up to your Variable, No Continue repaying Solid credit is
CREDIT credit limit, as typically and borrowing required; you may
determined by the for several years need to pay the You borrow based on
lender without additional entire amount due
approvals or once a year; higher your credit, without using your home as paperwork interest rate than a collateral loan that uses your
home as collateral HELOC
You borrow against the equity in your home percentage of the
appraised value of your home, minus the amount you owe on your mortgage typically Generally a Variable. Yes Continue repaying and Repayment amount
borrowing for several years often required when
without additional approvals or paperwork varies; repayment is
you sell your home
2 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT COMPARE A HELOC TO OTHER MONEY SOURCES 3
--- Page 4 ---
Compare a HELOC to
other money sources
MONEY SOURCE HOW MUCH CAN YOU
BORROW VARIABLE OR FIXED RATE IS YOUR HOME AT RISK? TYPICAL ADVANTAGES TYPICAL DISADVANTAGES
RETIREMENT PLAN Generally, up Fixed No Repay through If you leave or lose
LOAN
You borrow from your to 50% of your
vested balance or $50,000, paycheckdeductions; paperworkyour job, repay thewhole amount at that time or pay
retirement savings whichever is less required but no taxes and penalties;
in a 401(k) or similar credit check and spouse may need to
plan through your no impact on your consent
current employer credit score
HOME EQUITY Depends on your Fixed or Yes You don’t make The amount you owe
CONVERSION age, the interest variable monthly loan grows over time;
MORTGAGE (HECM)
You must be age 62 rate on your loan,
and the value of your home payments—instead, you
typically repay theyou might not haveany value left in yourhome if you want to
or older, and you loan when you leave it to your heirs
borrow against the move out, or your
equity in your home survivors repay itafter you die
CREDIT CARD Up to the amount Fixed or No No minimum Higher interest rate
You borrow money of your credit limit, variable purchase; than a loan that
from the credit card
company and repay as determined by
the credit card company consumer protections in thecase of fraud or uses your home ascollateral
as you go lost or stolen card
FRIENDS AND Agreed on by Variable, No Reduced waiting Forgiven loans
FAMILY
You borrow money the borrower and
lender fixed or other time, fees, and paperworkcompared to aand unreported orforgiven interest cancomplicate taxes,
from someone you
are close to formal loan especially for large
loans; can jeopardizeimportant personal
relationships ifsomething goes
wrong
4 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT COMPARE A HELOC TO OTHER MONEY SOURCES 5
--- Page 5 ---
How HELOCs work
PREPARE FOR UP-FRONT COSTS
Some lenders waive some or all of the up-front
costs for a HELOC. Others may charge fees. For example, you might get charged:
• A fee for a property appraisal , which is a formal
estimate of the value of your home
• An application fee, which might not be
refunded if you are turned down
• Closing costs, including fees for attorneys, title search, mortgage preparation and filing, property and title insurance, and taxes
PULL MONEY FROM YOUR LINE OF CREDIT
Once approved for a HELOC, you can generally spend up to your credit limit whenever you want. When your line of credit is open for spending, you are in the you are in the borrowing period , also
called the draw period . Typically, you use special
checks or a credit card to draw on your line. Some plans require you to borrow a minimum amount each time (for example, $300) or keep a minimum amount outstanding. Some plans require you to take an initial amount when the credit line is set up.
MAKE REPAYMENTS DURING THE “DRAW
PERIOD”
Some plans set a minimum monthly payment that
includes a portion of the principal  (the amount you
borrow) plus accrued interest. The portion of your payment that goes toward principal typically does not repay the principal by the end of the term. Other plans may allow payment of the interest only, during the draw period, which means that you pay nothing toward the principal. If your plan has a variable interest rate, your monthly payments may change even if you don’t draw more money.
ENTER THE “REPAYMENT PERIOD”
Whatever your payment arrangements during the draw period—whether you pay some, a little, or none of the principal amount of the loan—when the draw period ends you enter a repayment period. Your lender may set a schedule so that you repay the full amount, often over ten or 15 years.
Or, you may have to pay the entire balance owed,
all at once, which might be a large amount called a balloon payment. You must be prepared to make this balloon payment  by refinancing it with
the lender, getting a loan from another lender, or some other means.  If you are unable to pay the balloon payment in full, you could lose your home.
RENEW OR CLOSE OUT THE LINE OF CREDIT
At the end of the repayment period, your lender might encourage you to leave the line of credit open. This way you don’t have to go through the cost and expense of a new loan, if you expect to borrow again. Be sure you understand if annual maintenance fees or other fees apply, even if you are not actively using the credit line.
TIP
If you sell your home, you are generally required to pay off your HELOC in full immediately. If you are likely to sell your home in the near future, consider whether or not to pay the up-front costs of setting up a line of credit.
6 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT HOW HELOCS WORK 7
--- Page 6 ---
 GET THREE HELOC ESTIMATES
Shopping around lets you compare costs and
features, so you can feel confident you’re making the best choice for your situation.
OFFER A OFFER B OFFER C
Initiating the HELOC
Credit limit $
First transaction $
Minimum transaction $
Minimum balance $
Fixed annual percentage rate 
Variable annual percentage rate 
» Index used and current value
» Amount of margin
» Frequency of rate adjustments
» Amount/length of discount rate (if any)
» Interest rate cap and floor
Length of plan
» Draw period
» Repayment period
Initial fees
» Appraisal fee $
» Application fee $
8 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT GET THREE HELOC ESTIMATES 9
--- Page 7 ---
 GET THREE HELOC ESTIMATES
Shopping around lets you compare costs and
features, so you can feel confident you’re making the best choice for your situation.
OFFER A OFFER B OFFER C
» Up-front charges, including points $
» Early termination fee $
» Closing costs
During the draw period
» Interest and principal payments $
» Interest-only payments? $
» Fully amortizing payments $
» Annual fee (if applicable) $
» Transaction fee (if applicable) $
» Inactivity fee $
» Prepayment and other penalty fees $
During the repayment period
» Penalty for overpayments?
» Fully amortizing payment amount?
» Balloon repayment of full balance owed?
» Renewal available?
» Refinancing of balance by lender?
» Conversion to fixed-term loan?
10 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT My best HELOC offer is:
--- Page 8 ---
How variable interest rates work
Home equity lines of credit typically involve
variable rather than fixed interest rates.
A variable interest rate generally has two parts:
the index and the margin.
An index  is a measure of interest rates generally
that reflects trends in the overall economy
Different lenders use different indexes in their loans. Common indexes include the U.S. prime rate and the Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) rate. Talk with your lender to find out more about the index they use.
The margin  is an extra percentage that the lender
adds to the index. Lenders sometimes offer a temporarily discounted
interest rate for home equity lines—an introductory or teaser rate  that is unusually low for a short
period, such as six months.
Rights and responsibilities
Lenders are required to disclose the terms and costs of their home equity lines of credit. They need to tell you:
• Annual percentage rate (APR)
• Information about variable rates
• Payment terms
• Requirements on transactions, such as
minimum draw amounts and number of draws allowed per year • Annual fees
• Miscellaneous charges
You usually get these disclosures when you receive a loan application, and you get additional disclosures before the line of credit is opened. In general, the lender cannot charge a nonrefundable fee as part of your application until three days after you have received the disclosures.
If the lender changes the terms before the loan is
made, you can decide not to go forward with it, and the lender must return all fees. There is one exception: the variable interest rate might change, and in that case if you decide not to go ahead with the loan, your fees are not refunded.
Lenders must give you a list of HUD-approved
housing counselors in your area. You can talk to counselor about how HELOCs work and get free or low-cost help with budgeting and money management.
Right to cancel (also called right to rescind)
If you change your mind for any reason, under federal law, you can cancel the credit line in the first three days. Notify the lender in writing within the first three days after the account was opened. The lender must then cancel the loan and return the fees you paid, including application and appraisal fees.
TIP
Some HELOCs let you convert some of your balance to a fixed interest rate. The fixed interest rate is typically higher than the variable rate, but it means more predictable payments.
12 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT HOW HELOCS WORK 13
--- Page 9 ---
If something changes during
the course of the loan
HELOCs generally permit the lender to freeze or
reduce your credit line if the value of your home falls or if they see a change for the worse in your financial situation. If this happens, you can:
• Talk with your lender. Find out the reason
for the freeze or reduction. You might need to check your credit reports for errors that might have caused a downgrade in your credit. Or, you might need to talk with your lender about a new appraisal on your home and make sure the lender agrees to accept a new appraisal as valid.
• Shop for another line of credit. If another lender offers you a line of credit, you may be able to use that to pay off your original line of credit. Application fees and other fees may apply for the new loan.  WELL DONE!
For most people, a home is their most
valuable asset. A HELOC can help you
make the most of this asset, when you
understand the ins and outs and know
what to expect.
14 HOME EQUITY LINES OF CREDIT HOW HELOCS WORK 15
--- Page 10 ---
In this booklet:
 ASK YOURSELF
Have I considered other sources of money
and loans, besides a HELOC?
Have I shopped around for HELOC features
and fees?
Am I comfortable with the worst-case
scenario, where I could lose my home?
 ONLINE TOOLS
CFPB website
cfpb.gov
Answers to common questions
cfpb.gov/askcfpb
Tools and resources for home buyers
cfpb.gov/owning-a-home
Talk to a HUD-approved housing counselor
cfpb.gov/find-a-housing-counselor
Submit a complaint
cfpb.gov/complaint
Last updated 08/22