URL: https://www.aven.com/docs/CFPBCharmBooklet.pdf
==================================================

--- Page 1 ---
CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON
Adjustable-Rate
Mortgages
Find out how
your payment can change over time
An official publication of the U.S. government
--- Page 2 ---
How to use the booklet
When you and your mortgage lender discuss
adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), you receive a copy of this booklet. When you apply for an ARM loan, you receive a Loan Estimate. You can request and receive multiple Loan Estimates from competing lenders to find your best deal.
You may want to have your Loan Estimate handy
for any loan you are considering as you work through this booklet. We reference a sample Loan Estimate throughout the booklet to help you apply the information to your situation.
You can find more information about ARMs
at cfpb.gov/about-arms. You’ll also find other mortgage-related CFPB resources, facts, and tools to help you take control of the homebuying process.
About the CFPB
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regulates the offering and provision of consumer financial products and services under the federal consumer financial laws and educates and empowers consumers to make better informed financial decisions.
This booklet, titled Consumer Handbook on Adjustable
Rate Mortgages, was created to comply with federal law pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2604 and 12 CFR 1026.19(b)(1).How can this booklet help you?
This booklet can help you decide whether an
adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) is the right choice for you and to help you take control of the homebuying process.
Your lender may have already provided you
with a copy of Your Home Loan Toolkit. You can also download the Toolkit from the CFPB’s Buying a House guide at cfpb.gov/buy-a-
house/ .
An ARM is a mortgage with an interest rate that changes, or “adjusts,” throughout the loan.
With an ARM, the interest rate and
monthly payment may start out low. However, both the rate and the payment can increase very quickly.
Consider an ARM only if you can afford
increases in your monthly payment—even
to the maximum amount.
After you finish this booklet:
•You’ll understand how an ARM works and whether it’s the right choice for you. (page 2)
•You’ll know how to review important documents when you apply for an ARM. (page 6)
•You’ll understand the risks that come with different types of ARMs. (page 18)
--- Page 3 ---
2 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES IS AN ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGE RIGHT FOR YOU?  3 Is an ARM right for you?
ARMs come with the risk of higher payments in
the future that you might not be able to predict. But in some situations, an ARM might make sense for you. If you are considering an ARM, be sure to understand the tradeoffs. TIP
Don’t count on being able to refinance before your
interest rate and monthly payments increase. You might not qualify for refinancing if the value of your home goes down or if something unexpected damages your financial situation, like a job loss or medical costs.
COMPARE FIXED-RATE MORTGAGE ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGE
Consider
this option if
§You prefer predictable
payments, or
§You plan to keep your home for a long period of time §You are confident you can afford increases
in your monthly payment  —ev en to the
maximum amount, or
§You plan to sell your home within a short period of time
Interest rate  §Set when you take out the loan
§Stays the same for the entire loan term §Based on an index that changes
§May start out lower than a fixed rate mortgage but you bear the risk of increases throughout your loan
Monthly
payment §Principal and interest payment
stays the same over the life of your loan
§You know the total you will pay in principal and interest over the life of the loan §Initial principal and interest payment amount remains in effect for a limited period
§You can't know in advance how much
total interest you will pay because your interest rate changes
§If you can’t afford the increased payments,
you may lose your home to foreclosure
--- Page 4 ---
4 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES LEARN ABOUT HOW ARMS WORK  5 Learn about how ARMs work
As you decide whether to move ahead with an
ARM, you should understand how they work and how your housing costs can be affected.
Interest rate = index + margin
The interest rate on an ARM has two parts: the index and the margin.
INDEX
An index  is a measure of interest rates generally
that reflects trends in the overall economy. Different lenders use different indexes for their ARM programs.
Common indexes include the U.S. prime rate
and the Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) rate. Talk with your lender to find out more about the index they use, which is also shown on your Loan Estimate.
MARGIN
The margin  is an extra percentage that the
lender adds to the index.
You can shop around to different lenders to find
the lowest combination of the index plus the margin. Your Loan Estimate shows the index and the margin being offered to you.Changes to initial rate and payment
The initial  interest rate and initial principal and
interest payment amount on an ARM remain in effect for a limited period.
So, when you see ARMs advertised as 5/1 or
5/6m ARMs:
•The first number tells you the length of time
your initial interest rate lasts.
•The second number tells you how often the rate changes after that.
For example, during the first five years in a 5/6m
ARM your rate stays the same. After that, the rate may adjust every six months (the 6m in the 5/6m example) until the loan is paid off. This period between rate changes is called the adjustment period . Adjustment periods can vary. Some last
a month, a year, or like this example, six months.
For some ARMs, the initial rate and payment can
be very different from the rates and payments later in the loan term. Even if the market for interest rates is stable, your rates and payments could change a lot.
--- Page 5 ---
6 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGESUse your Loan Estimate to
understand your ARM
When you apply for a mortgage,
the lender gives you a document called a Loan Estimate . It
describes important features of the loan the lender is offering you. This section illustrates the parts of a Loan Estimate that are specific features of ARM loans. An interactive, online version of a Loan Estimate sample is available at: cfpb.gov/arm-explainer/
Adjustable
Interest Rate (AIR) TableLoan Costs Other Costs
Total Closing Costs (J)
Closing Costs Financed (Included in Loan Amount)Down Payment/Funds from BorrowerDepositFunds for BorrowerSeller CreditsAdjustments and Other Credits
Estimated Cash to CloseCalculating Cash to Close
PAGE 2 OF 3  •  LOAN ID # 123456789 LOAN ESTIMATEClosing Cost Details
A.  Origination Charges
% of Loan Amount (Points)
B.  Services Y ou Cannot Shop For
C.  Services Y ou Can Shop For
D.  TOTAL LOAN COSTS (A + B + C)E.  Taxes and Other Government Fees
Recording Fees and Other Taxes
Transfer Taxes
F.  Prepaids
Homeowner’s Insurance Premium (  months)
Mortgage Insurance Premium (  months)Prepaid Interest  ($   per day for    days @   )
Property Taxes  (  months)
G.  Initial Escrow Payment at Closing
Homeowner’s Insurance $   per month for    mo.  Mortgage Insurance $   per month for    mo.Property Taxes $   per month for    mo.
H.  Other
I.  TOTAL OTHER COSTS  (E + F + G + H)
J.  TOTAL CLOSING COSTS
D + I
Lender Credits
Adjustable Interest Rate (AIR) Table
Index + Margin 1 Year Cmt + 2.25%
Initial Interest Rate 3%
Minimum/Maximum Interest Rate 2.25% / 8%
Change Frequency
First Change Beginning of 61st month
Subsequent Changes  Every 12 months after first change
Limits on Interest Rate Changes
First Change 2%
Subsequent Changes 2%Loan Terms
Projected PaymentsCan this amount increase after closing?
Loan Amount   $216,000 NO
Interest Rate   3% YES  · Adjusts every year starting in year 6
· Can go as high as 8% in year 8 · See AIR Table on page 2 for details
Monthly Principal & Interest
See Projected Payments Below
for Your Total Monthly Payment  $910.66
YES  · Adjusts every year starting in year 6
· Can go as high as $1,467 in year 8
Does the loan have these features?
Prepayment Penalty NO
Balloon Payment NODATE ISSUED
APPLICANTS
PROPERTY
SALE PRICE  LOAN TERM  30 years
PURPOSE  Purchase ce
PRODUCT  5/1 Adjustable Rate
LOAN TYPE  x Conventional    FHA    VA    __
LOAN ID #  1234567891330172608
RATE LOCK  x NO    YES
Costs at Closing
Estimated Closing Costs  $X,XXX  Includes  in Loan Costs +  in Other Costs –
in Lender Credits. See details on page 2.
Estimated Cash to Close  $XX,XXX Includes Closing Costs. See calculating Cash to Close on page 2
for details.Loan Estimate
Before closing, your interest rate, points, and lender credits can
change unless you lock the interest rate. All other estimated closing costs expire onSave this Loan Estimate to compare with your Closing Disclosure.
PAGE 1 OF 3  •  LOAN ID # 123456789 LOAN ESTIMATEVisit www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore for general information and tools.Payment Calculation Y ears 1-5 Y ears 6 Y ears 7 Y ears 8-30
Principal & Interest$910.66  $838 min
$1,123 max $838 min
$1,350 max $838 min
$1,467 max
Mortgage Insurance
Estimated Escrow
Amount can increase over time    + 99
+ 341+ 99
+ 341+ 99
+ 341+ ––
+ 341
Estimated Total
Monthly Payment$1,290 $1,217 – $1,502 $1,217 – $1,729 $1,179 – $1,808
Estimated Taxes, Insurance
& Assessments
Amount can increase over time  $341
a monthThis estimate includes
x Property Taxes
x Homeowner’s Insurance
Other:In escrow?
YES
YES
See Section G on page 2 for escrowed property costs.
You must pay for other property costs separately.Projected
PaymentsLoan Terms
USE YOUR LOAN ESTIMATE TO UNDERSTAND YOUR ARM  7 Product
--- Page 6 ---
8 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
Loan Terms
USE YOUR LOAN ESTIMATE TO UNDERSTAND YOUR ARM  9 Loan terms
INTEREST RATE
The Loan Estimate shows the initial  interest rate
you pay at the beginning of your loan term. This
row also shows how often your rate can change and how high it can go.
MONTHLY PRINCIPAL & INTEREST
The Loan Estimate shows the initial  monthly
principal and interest payment you’ll make if you accept this loan. Your principal  is the money that
you originally agreed to pay back on your loan. Interest  is a cost you pay to borrow the principal.
The initial principal and interest payment amount for an ARM is set only for the initial period and may change after that.
 THE TALK
You might hear, “An ARM makes sense
because you can refinance the loan before your interest rate and monthly payment increase.”
Ask yourself, a spouse, or a loved one:“What if the market value of the home
goes down?”
“What if our financial situation or  our credit score gets damaged by something
unexpected like a job loss
or illness?”
“If we can’t refinance at a better rate,
can we afford the maximum interest rate and pa
yment increase under
this loan?”
Can this amount increase after closing?
Loan Amount $216,000 NO
Interest Rate 3% YES ·Adjusts every year starting in year 6
·Can go as high as 8% in year 8
·See AIR Table for details
Monthly Principal & In
terest
See Projected Payments Below
for Your Total Monthly Payment$910.66 YES ·Adjusts every year starting in year 6
·Can go as high as $1,467 in year 8
Does the loan have these features?
Prepayment Penalty NO
Balloon Payment NO
Example of “Loan terms” section. Find this on page 1 of
your own Loan Estimate
--- Page 7 ---
10 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
Projected Payments
Payment Calculation Y ears 1-5 Y ears 6 Y ears 7 Y ears 8-30
Principal & Interest $910.66  $838  min
$1,123  max $838  min
$1,350  max $838  min
$1,467  max
Mortgage Insurance
Estimated Escrow
Amount can increase over time+ 99
+ 341+ 99
+ 341+ 99
+ 341+ ––
+ 341
Estimated Total
Monthly Payment$1,290 $1,217 – $1,502 $1,217 – $1,729 $1,179 – $1,808
Estimated Taxes, Insurance
& Assessments
Amount can increase over time$341
a monthThis estimate includes
x Property Taxes
x Homeowner’s Insurance
Other:In escrow?
YES
YES
See Section G on page 2 for escrowed property costs.
You must pay for other property costs separately.
USE YOUR LOAN ESTIMATE TO UNDERSTAND YOUR ARM  11 Example of “Projected payments” section. Find this on
page 1 of your own Loan Estimate
Projected payments
PRINCIPAL & INTEREST
The monthly principal and interest payment on
your ARM is likely to change after the initial period. Review this section to see how your payment can change based on your loan’s interest rate.
ESTIMATED TOTAL MONTHLY PAYMENT
Review this row to see the total minimum and maximum monthly payments. The payments include mortgage insurance, property taxes, homeowners insurance, and any additional property assessments or other escrow items. Learn more about these mortgage terms at
cfpb.gov/mortgage-terms/
Keep in mind that other parts of your monthly
and annual housing costs can change, such
as your property taxes and homeowners insurance payments. THE TALK
Talk over how your financial life could
be affected if your ARM monthly
payment increases. In future years, you
might face money decisions like:
•Job changes
•School or other education expenses
•Medical needs and expenses
Because ARM adjustments are
unpredictable, you might have less or
more financial flexibility for other parts
of your life.
--- Page 8 ---
12 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
Adjustable Interest Rate (AIR) table
You should read and understand the AIR table
calculations before committing to an ARM. It's important to know how your interest rate changes over the life of your loan.
INDEX + MARGIN
Your lender is required to show you how your interest rate is calculated, which is determined by the index and margin on your loan. See page 2 of this booklet for more about index and margin.
INITIAL INTEREST RATE
This is the interest rate at the beginning of your loan. The initial interest rate changes to the index plus the margin at your first adjustment (subject to the limits on interest rate changes). Your loan servicer tells you your new payment amount seven to eight months in advance, so you can budget for it or shop for a new loan.
MINIMUM/MAXIMUM INTEREST RATE
This shows how low or high your interest rate could be over the life of your loan. Generally, an ARM’s interest rate is never lower than the margin.CHANGE FREQUENCY
This indicates when the interest rate on your loan will change. Your loan servicer sends you advance notices of changes.
LIMITS ON INTEREST RATE CHANGES
This shows the highest amount your interest rate can increase when there is a change.
Adjustable Interest Rate (AIR) Table
Index + Margin 1 Year Cmt + 2.5%
Initial Interest Rate 3%
Minimum/Maximum Interest Rate 2.5% / 8%
Change Frequency
First Change  Beginning of 61st month   Subsequent Changes  Every 12 months after first changeLimits on Interest Rate Changes   First Change 2%
Subsequent Changes 2%
USE YOUR LOAN ESTIMATE TO UNDERSTAND YOUR ARM  13 Example of “AIR table” section. Find this on page 2 of your
own Loan Estimate
 “TEASER ” RATES
Some lenders offer a “teaser,” “start,” or
“discounted” rate that is lower than their fully indexed rate. When the teaser rate ends, your loan takes on the fully indexed rate. Don’t assume that a loan with a teaser rate is a good one for you. Not everyone’s budget can accommodate a higher payment.Consider this example:
•A lender’s fully indexed rate is 4.5%
(the i
ndex is 2% and the margin is 2.5%).
•The loan also features a “teaser” rate of 3%.
•Even if the index doesn’t change,  your i
nterest rate still increases from 3%
to 4.5% when your teaser rate expires.
--- Page 9 ---
14 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES COMPARE YOUR ARM OFFERS  15   COMPARE YOUR ARM OFFERS
Shop for at least three loan offers, and fill in the blanks
below using the information on your Loan Estimates: ARM OFFER 1 ARM OFFER 2 FIXED-RATE
OFFER
Lender name
Loan amount
  
Initial interest rate
    
Initial principal and interest payment
  
IndexMargin
How long will the initial interest rate and initial
payment apply?
How high can my interest rate go?
    
How high can my principal and interest payment go?
  
My best loan offer is:
 THE TALK
You are in control of whether or not to proceed with an ARM. If you prefer to proceed with a fixed-rate mortgage, here is one way to start the conversation with a lender: “Afixed-rate mortgage seemstobeabetter
fitforme.Let’stalkaboutwhatyoucanoffer
andhowitcompares tootherloansImaybe
abletoget.”
--- Page 10 ---
16 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGESReview your lender’s ARM
program disclosure
Your lender gives you an ARM program disclosure
when they give you an application. This is the lender’s opportunity to tell you about their different ARM loans and how the loans work. The index and margin can differ from one lender to another, so it is helpful to compare offers from different lenders.
Generally, the index your lender uses won’t
change after you get your loan, but your loan contract may allow the lender to switch to a different index in some situations.
  GATHER FACTS
Review your program disclosure and ask your lender questions to understand their ARM
loan offerings:
How are the interest rate and payment determined?
Does this loan have interest-rate caps  (that
is, limits on interest rate changes)?
How often do the interest rate and
pay
ment adjust?
What index is used and where is it published?
Is the initial interest rate lower than the fully indexed rate? (see “Teaser rates,” on page 12)
What type of information is provided in notices of adjustment and when do I receive them?
REVIEW YOUR LENDER’S ARM PROGRAM DISCLOSURE  17Ask about other options
offered by your lender
Conversion option
Your loan agreement may include a clause
that lets you convert the ARM to a fixed-rate mortgage in the future.
When you convert, the new rate is generally set
using a formula given in your loan documents. That fixed rate may be higher or lower than interest rates available to you in the market at that time. Also your lender may charge you a conversion fee. Ask your lender whether the loan you are being offered has a conversion feature and how it works.
Special features
You can shop around to understand what special ARM features may be available from different lenders.
Not all programs are the same. Talk with your
lender to find out if there’s anything special about their ARM programs that you may find valuable.
caps
--- Page 11 ---
18 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES CHECK YOUR ARM FOR ADDITIONAL FEATURES  19 Check your ARM for features
that could pose risks
Some types of ARMs have features that can
reduce your payments in the short term but may include fees or the risk of higher payments later. Review your loan terms and make sure that you understand the fees and how your rate and payment may change. Lower payments at the beginning could mean higher fees or much higher payments later.
Paying points to reduce your initial
interest rate
Lenders can offer you a lower rate in exchange
for paying loan fees at closing, or points .
With an ARM, paying points often reduces your interest rate only until the end of the initial period—the reduction most likely does not apply over the life of your loan.
If you are using an ARM to refinance a loan,
points are often rolled into your new loan amount. You might not realize you are paying points unless you look carefully. Points are disclosed on the top of Page 2 of your Loan Estimate.
Lenders may give you the option to pay points,
but you never have to take that option. To figure out if you have a good deal, compare your cost in points with the amount that you will save with a lower interest rate.
Loan Costs
A. Origination Charges $3,160
1% of Loan Amount (Points) $2,160
Application Fee $500
Processing Fee $500
Example of “Loan costs” section. Find this on page 2 of
your own Loan Estimate
 THE TALK
If your Loan Estimate shows points, ask
your lender:
•“What is my interest rate if I choose
not to pay points?”
•“How much money do I pay in
points? And, compared to the
to
tal reduction in my payments
during the initial period, am I
coming out ahead?”
•“Can I see a revised Loan Estimate
with the points removed and the
in
terest rate adjusted?”
--- Page 12 ---
20 ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES CHECK YOUR ARM FOR ADDITIONAL FEATURES  21Interest-only ARMs
With an interest-only ARM payment plan, you pay
only the interest for a specified number of years. During this interest-only period, you have smaller monthly payments, but you are not paying anything toward your mortgage loan balance.
When the interest-only period ends, your
monthly payment increases—even if interest rates stay the same—because you must start paying back the principal plus the interest each month. Your monthly payments can increase a lot. The longer the interest-only period, the more your monthly payments increase after the interest-only period ends.
Payment option ARMs
Payment option ARMs were common before 2008 when the housing crisis began, and some lenders might still offer them.
A payment option ARM means the borrower can
choose from different payment options, such as:
•A traditional principal and interest payment
•An interest-only payment (see above)
•A minimum payment, which could result innegative amortization
Negati
ve amortization  happens when you are
not paying enough to cover all of the interest due. Your loan balance goes up instead of down.  GATHER FACTS
Learn more information about payment option ARMs and negative amortization at:
•cfpb.gov/payment-option-arm/
•cfpb.gov/negative-amortization/
 WELL DONE!
Choosing the right home loan is just
as important as choosing the right
home. By equipping yourself with
knowledge about ARMs, you can
decide whether or not this type of
loan is the right choice for you.
Negative amortization
--- Page 13 ---
Consumer Handbook on
Adjustable-Rate Mortgages
 A SK YOUR LENDER
•How high can my payment go?
•How high can my interest rate go?
•How long is my initial principal and
interest payment guaranteed?
  ASK YOURSELF
•Have I shopped around to compare ARMs
and fixed-rate loans?
•If an ARM has a lower initial interest ratethan a fixed-rate mortgage, is paying lessmoney now worth the risk of an increaselater?
•Can I afford the highest payment possiblewith the ARM if I can’t sell the home, orrefinance into a lower rate, before theincrease?
 ON LINE TOOLS
CFPB website
cfpb.gov
A  nswers to common questions
cfpb.gov/askcfpb
Tools and resources for home buyers
cfpb.gov/owning-a-home
Talk to a housing counselor
cfpb.gov/find-a-housing-counselor
Submit a complaint
cfpb.gov/complaint
Las
t updated 06/20